 bali 
空氣 u sakauzip ita ku bali. 
風 u bali han ku pasaungayay tu pahpah nu kilang.

siwkay nu cait
bali1- anu inayi' ku bali sa, amapatay ku tademaw. la'cus pahanhan tu kita.
bali2- anu sibali sa, saepi' tu kita. yu adidi' ku bali, kapah. anu tabaki ku bali, u balius kuyza, malalud, maelul ku niyazu' atu tademaw.

tinaku a kamu
pabali　打氣；充氣 a:su' ku heci nu apalu pahipuwan.
amabaliyus　颱風將至 amabaliyus tu sa pihaymawi kita.
baliyus　颱風 u papah nu salunan ku sakatineng tu baliyus.
hinabaliyus　常有颱風 hinabaliyus i lalud. 
kabaliyusan　颱風季節 u kabaliyusan a puu' nu mihecaan sa u lalud.
mabali　有風  mabali kina demiad. amana pisiwduk a mabali.
mapabali　被風吹 la'cus mapabali ku makebingay.
pabalien　去打氣；去充氣 pabalien ni Sayun ku mali ni Panay!
sibali　有風 sibali ku luma' ni Tilu tu labi.
sibaliay　有風的 malecad u sibaliay ku bili ni Taymu tanuesus sa.

u sulit nu Hulam atu Amilika
空氣是指地球大氣層中的氣體混合。它主要由78%的氮氣、21%氧氣、還有1%的稀有氣體和雜質組成的混合物。空氣的成分不是固定的，隨著高度的改變、氣壓的改變，空氣的組成比例也會改變。但是長期以來人們一直認為空氣是一種單一的物質，直到後來法國科學家拉瓦節通過實驗首先得出了空氣是由氧氣和氮氣組成的結論。19世紀末，科學家們又通過大量的實驗發現，空氣裡還有氦、氬、氙、氖等稀有氣體。
風是大規模的氣體流動現象。在地球上，風是由空氣的大範圍運動形成的。在外太空，太陽風是氣體或帶電粒子從太陽到太空的流動，而行星風則是星球大氣層的輕分子經釋氣作用飄散至太空。風通常可按空間尺度、速度、力度、肇因、產生區域及其影響來劃分。在太陽系的海王星和木星上，曾觀測到迄今為止於星球上產生的最為強烈的風。
The three major constituents of air, and therefore of Earth's atmosphere, are nitrogen, oxygen, and argon. Water vapor accounts for roughly 0.25% of the atmosphere by mass. The concentration of water vapor (a greenhouse gas) varies significantly from around 10 ppm by volume in the coldest portions of the atmosphere to as much as 5% by volume in hot, humid air masses, and concentrations of other atmospheric gases are typically quoted in terms of dry air (without water vapor). The remaining gases are often referred to as trace gases, among which are the greenhouse gases, principally carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Filtered air includes trace amounts of many other chemical compounds. Many substances of natural origin may be present in locally and seasonally variable small amounts as aerosols in an unfiltered air sample, including dust of mineral and organic composition, pollen and spores, sea spray, and volcanic ash. Various industrial pollutants also may be present as gases or aerosols, such as chlorine (elemental or in compounds), fluorine compounds and elemental mercury vapor. Sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide and sulfur dioxide (SO2) may be derived from natural sources or from industrial air pollution.
Wind is the flow of gases on a large scale. On the surface of the Earth, wind consists of the bulk movement of air. In outer space, solar wind is the movement of gases or charged particles from the Sun through space, while planetary wind is the outgassing of light chemical elements from a planet's atmosphere into space. Winds are commonly classified by their spatial scale, their speed, the types of forces that cause them, the regions in which they occur, and their effect. The strongest observed winds on a planet in the Solar System occur on Neptune and Saturn. Winds have various aspects, an important one being its velocity (wind speed); another the density of the gas involved; another its energy content or wind energy.

namakayniay a nasulitan nasakamuan atu natinengan
撒奇萊雅族語詞典
原住民族委員會線上字詞典