 hucang, hocang 
虎杖
(俗名：假川七、土川七、紅川七、紅三七、三七、黃肉川七、黃藥子)

u kakuniza
salaedan(界)：植物界 Plantae
panan(門)：被子植物門 Magnoliophyta
upiz(綱)：雙子葉植物綱 Magnoliopsida
mata(目)：石竹目 Caryophyllales
sapamat(科)：蓼科 Polygonaceae
mikitinay(屬)：何首烏屬 Fallopia

hicahicaay(種)：虎杖 F. japonica

u siwkay nu nipaluma
u sanek nu nipaluma
malaheci tu imelang
pasubana i cacudadan a lacul
u zuma a cidekay a kamu, saungay misapayu' a cidekay
u sulit nu zuma a kamu-Hulam atu Amilika
虎杖（學名：Fallopia japonica），別名假川七、土川七、紅三七、三七或日本蓼，是一種蓼科何首烏屬植物。被國際自然保護聯盟物種存續委員會的入侵物種專家小組（ISSG）列入世界百大外來入侵種。多年生草本，虎杖並不高，但亦可長至3至4米。莖有節而且中空，就像一支手杖一樣，加上有有三角型的葉，構造與竹非常類似，但兩者其實並沒有任何關連。虎杖的嫩葉都有紅色的斑紋。雄雌異株。虎杖產於東亞地區，分布在日本北海道西部以南的地區、朝鮮半島、台灣、北美、歐洲及中國的江蘇、江西、山東、四川等地。
Fallopia japonica, synonym Reynoutria japonica, commonly known as Asian knotweed or Japanese knotweed, is a large, herbaceous perennial plant of the knotweed and buckwheat family Polygonaceae. It is native to East Asia in Japan, China and Korea. In North America and Europe, the species has successfully established in numerous habitats and is classified as an invasive species in several countries.
Japanese knotweed has hollow stems with distinct raised nodes that give it the appearance of bamboo, though it is not related. While stems may reach a maximum height of 3–4 m (9.8–13.1 ft) each growing season, it is typical to see much smaller plants in places where they sprout through cracks in the pavement or are repeatedly cut down. The leaves are broad oval with a truncated base, 7–14 cm (2.8–5.5 in) long and 5–12 cm (2.0–4.7 in) broad, with an entire margin. The flowers are small, cream or white, produced in erect racemes 6–15 cm (2.4–5.9 in) long in late summer and early autumn.
Closely related species include giant knotweed (Fallopia sachalinensis, syn. Polygonum sachalinense) and Russian vine (Fallopia baldschuanica, Polygonum baldschuanicum).
Other English names for Japanese knotweed include fleeceflower, Himalayan fleece vine, monkeyweed, monkey fungus, Hancock's curse, elephant ears, pea shooters, donkey rhubarb (although it is not a rhubarb), sally rhubarb, Japanese bamboo, American bamboo, and Mexican bamboo (though it is not a bamboo). In Chinese medicine, it is known as Huzhang (Chinese: 虎杖; pinyin: Hǔzhàng), which translates to "tiger stick". There are also regional names, and it is sometimes confused with sorrel. In Japanese, the name is itadori (虎杖, イタドリ).

namakayniay a nasulitan nasakamuan atu natinengan
《中國高等植物資料庫全庫》. 中國科學院微生物研究所. [2009-02-24].
行政院原住民族委員會-原住民族藥用植物2009-p137
虎杖 Huzhang 藥用植物圖像資料庫 (香港浸會大學中醫藥學院) （中文）（英文）
虎杖 Huzhuang 中藥材圖像資料庫 (香港浸會大學中醫藥學院) （中文）（英文）
虎杖 Hu Zhang 中藥標本資料庫 (香港浸會大學中醫藥學院) （繁體中文）（英文）
白藜蘆醇 Resveratrol 中草藥化學圖像資料庫 (香港浸會大學中醫藥學院) （中文）（英文）
虎杖苷 Polydatin 中草藥化學圖像資料庫 (香港浸會大學中醫藥學院) （中文）（英文）
新芒果苷 Neomangiferin 中草藥化學圖像資料庫 (香港浸會大學中醫藥學院) （中文）（英文）